Title: Introduction

An Introduction to libmseed::

The miniSEED library provides a framework for manipulation of SEED
data records including the unpacking and packing of data records.
Functionality is also included for managing waveform data as
continuous traces.  All structures of SEED 2.4 data records are
supported with the following exceptions: Blockette 2000 opaque data
which has an unknown data structure by definition and Blockette 405
which depends on full SEED (SEED including full ASCII headers) for a
full data description.

The primary purpose of the library is to hide the details of miniSEED
in order to allow rapid development of miniSEED reading/writing
software.  The framework allows everything from manipulation of
miniSEED on a record-by-record basis to reading of miniSEED into
continuous trace segments to packing of large continuous traces using
a record template.

Certain common tasks have, through library design, been streamlined,
for example: reading miniSEED records from a file, adding data from
unpacked records to a group of traces or packing a group of continuous
traces into miniSEED records.

The following data encoding formats are supported for both unpacking
and packing: ASCII, INT16, INT32, FLOAT32, FLOAT64, STEIM1 and STEIM2.
The INT and FLOAT encodings each have two versions for quantities with
a different number of bits of representation.  The STEIM decompression
produces 32-bit integers; likewise the compression routines require
32-bit integers as input.  The following data encoding formats are
supported for unpacking only: GEOSCOPE (24-bit, 16/3 and 16/4 gain
ranged), CDSN, SRO and DWWSSN.

