.TH MSR_PARSE 3 2010/12/30 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Detect and parse a SEED data record from a memory buffer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "int  \fBmsr_parse\fP ( char *" record ", int " recbuflen ", MSRecord " **ppmsr "," 
.BI "                 int " reclen ", flag " dataflag ", flag " verbose " );"

.BI "int  \fBms_detect\fP ( const char *" record ", int " recbuflen " );"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmsr_parse\fP will parse a SEED data record from the \fIrecord\fP
buffer and populate the MSRecord structure at \fIppmsr\fP, allocating
one if needed.  The \fIrecbuflen\fP argument is the length of the
\fIrecord\fP buffer.  Records must begin at the start of the buffer.

If \fIreclen\fP is 0 or negative the length of record is automatically
determined, otherwise \fIreclen\fP should be the correct record
length.  For auto detection of record length the record should include
a 1000 blockette or be followed by another record header in the
buffer.

If \fIdataflag\fP is true (non-zero) the data samples will be unpacked
when parsing the record.  This argument is passed directly to
\fBmsr_unpack(3)\fP.

\fBms_detect\fP determines whether the supplied \fIrecord\fP buffer
contains a SEED data record by verifying known signatures, if a record
is found the record length is determined by:

1) Searching the buffer up to \fIrecbuflen\fP for a Blockette 1000.

2) If no Blockette 1000 is found search at 256-byte offsets for the
fixed section of the next header in the buffer, thereby implying the
record length.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmsr_parse\fP returns values:
.nf
  0 : On success and populates the supplied MSRecord.
 >0 : Data record was detected but not enough data is present in buffer,
      the value returned is a hint of how much more data is needed.
 <0 : On error a negative libmseed error value is returned.

\fBms_detect\fP returns values:
.nf
 -1 : Data record not detected or error
  0 : Data record detected but could not determine length
 >0 : Length of the data record in bytes
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmsr_unpack(3)\fP, \fBms_parse_raw(3)\fP and \fBms_errorstr(3)\fP

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
